- Some of the worst research
we do on human beings is when
we study things in
complete isolation, right?
Like when we take a cell
or a compound out of the human body,
we put it in a test tube
Petri dish, you know?
And, and we study it in isolation
because that's not how cells behave.
It's not how human beings behave.
We operate in communities,
not in isolation.
You know, I think that we're slowly sort
of micro poisoning ourselves to death.
You know, in this country
we use something called
single dose toxicity.
I hear people say all the time,
the dosage determines the poison.
And, and the dosage doesn't
always determine the poison.
It's the cumulative dosage.
Very often that determines the poison.
23 major sunscreen brands since 2020
have been removed from the shelves
because of their cancer
causing ingredient.
- Hey, awesome man. Good to see you, man.
It's good to see you, brother. Yeah. Yeah.
So Gary, you taught me
something really cool
after I started reading about it.
The documentation was out there,
but it wasn't something
that I would've just found.
Right? So most, like I, I follow
what I call low carb nutrition,
which is really carnivore, but
- I remember when we met
you were, you were kind
of just starting the carnivore diet.
- Yeah, yeah. And I was
- Like, this guy's crazy.
He's just gonna eat
meat. And then I started
looking into it and I was like,
- Right.
It wasn't that crazy.
It t that crazy, it makes perfect sense.
But you told me something
really important,
which is we were, we had a
mutual friend at the time,
and he would follow the
same thing that I was doing.
And then every once in a
while he would just kind
of go off the rails
and eat like two pieces
of chocolate cake.
- Yep.
- And you,
you looked at his blood
work and you're like, Hey,
- Oh
- Yeah,
- You're, you, you have
high LDL cholesterol,
which is normal with somebody
who's on the carnivore diet.
And that in itself may not be a problem.
But when you also have high triglycerides
- Yes.
- Now you're having glycation of arteries.
- Yeah. Glycation of arteries.
And you're shrinking the
particulate size of cholesterol.
So you're making it more
dangerous, you know, easier to,
to cross that endothelial lining Right.
And get eaten by a macrophage
and start that whole process.
- Right. - You know, I think,
I think cholesterol gets
blamed for a lot of crimes
that it's not committing.
- Right.
- You know, it's like blaming the
firefighter for the fire, you know?
'cause they're, they're on scene.
- Right.
- But they, they didn't like the fire.
- Right. They're actually cholesterol
cholesterol's kind of there
to repair the, the, the tissue
that, you know, the damage
is what caused it, you know
what called cholesterol to that
- Side.
Well, and it, it collects
at a point of inflammation.
My, my analogy is it's like
leaves plug up your drain
and cause a flood in your yard.
So cut down all the trees. Yeah, exactly.
No, maybe just clean your
drains. Yeah, I agree.
Maybe just not have the leaves,
like just sitting right
there on top of the drain.
I think that's the problem is like people
with high triglycerides,
like you can't be both,
you can't be low carb
and then gorge on carbohydrates
from time to time.
- No, that's the worst thing in the world.
Worst thing in the world. Or to be keto
and then sort of date the
keto diet, not marry it.
You know, it's one of those
diets that you have to, it's a
- One way street
- Committed to
- Just do it
- And have profound benefits.
I mean, I think its origins actually are,
are in the, for epilepsy.
That's right. Rich, what
it was, was designed for.
- So we're first, first discovered,
- But, but you know, we
can, we can run on fats Beta
hydroxybutyrate is a,
is a, is a fuel source.
Like go, like carbohydrates are,
and we can actually run on fats and,
and for people that have
very high triglycerides,
like Dana White, when I first
met Dana White, you know,
it was a kind of a hard
concept for him to get his arms
around that his triglycerides
were at such a level.
They were well over 800
fasted by the way. Whoa.
And, and I said, we're gonna
put you on a high fat diet
to bring the fat in your blood down.
And he was like, you know,
- Yeah.
- Come again. I was like, we're gonna
- Making a lot of sense.
- Yeah. We're just gonna try
to put your body into a state
of ketosis so that it really
sees fat as a fuel source.
And, and, and that's what happened.
I mean, week over week the,
the triglycerides just plummeted.
You know, they went from in the, you know,
eight hundreds into about 1 39
after about 10 weeks, you
know, in a, in a fasted state.
And so, you know, when
that's happening that you,
you're actually slightly
increasing the, the particle size
of LDL cholesterol, making
it a little less dangerous.
You know what's interesting
is when I was in the mortality
space, and, and this is anecdotal, so I,
I don't have a clinical
study to back this up,
but, you know, we processed death claims
and we would, we would triangulate
that death claim back into
the, the medical record
I did not see in 22 years,
a single centenarian not once,
that did not have
clinically elevated levels
of LDL cholesterol when they passed.
Because, you know, a lot
of times they would die in
CY care living or they
would die in the hospital
and they would actually have
recent blood work on them.
And when you file a death claim, you know,
we would get the day, the
date, the time, the location,
and the cause of death.
The cause of death in many
cases was not cardiac related.
And we would look at their blood profile
and they would have
elevated LDL cholesterol,
they had low triglycerides.
And it was like, well, how,
why are all these centenarians
having elevated LDL cholesterol?
And I, and I think a lot of times
- It's 'cause it's not indicated
for an early death. That's
- Right.
Yeah. I mean, I I've, I've
never seen a clinical study
and I'm sure the haters are
gonna come out and prove me wrong.
And if they do, great.
I haven't seen a study
where LDL cholesterol on its own
was directly linked to
cardiovascular disease.
- Oh no. There's no mechanisms whatsoever.
I'm gonna talk about that tomorrow.
- Are you amazing.
So, so that's a, you know, I mean, and,
and I think some of the worst
research we do on human beings
is when we study things in
complete isolation, right?
Like when we take a cell
or a compound out of the human body,
we put it in a test tube
Petri dish, you know, and,
and we study it in isolation
because that's not how cells behave.
It's not how human beings behave.
We, we, we, we, we,
we operate in communities
not in, in isolation.
In fact, we knew in the
mortality space, if you wanted
to cut a human being's life
expectancy in half at any
age, put them in isolation.
- Yeah, sure.
- Right. I mean the same
- Oh, like during covid?
- Yeah. Like yeah.
I mean, I, I think the worst
thing to happen to us was,
you know, residential
quarantining, social distancing,
masking because this just,
this took all the hormetic
stress off the body.
- Yeah. - Right. And, and,
and I think that, you know,
so often we think about stress
as being such a negative thing,
but we know if you don't load
a bone, it doesn't strengthen.
If you don't tear a
muscle, it doesn't grow.
If you don't challenge the
immune system, it weakens. Right.
But we think about all these
things as being stressors and
because I feel like aging
is the aggressive pursuit
of comfort that we
aggressively pursue comfort.
And so we love, we actually age faster.
- Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. We get weaker.
- Yeah.
- Glycation, I mean,
glycation is just rapid
aging of every cell.
- Yeah. - And, and I, I've
been using that word a lot
because I think people are
starting to understand like, wow,
it's like really the
amount of junk food I eat
- Yeah. Is
- Really just putting me into a gear.
So you inflammatory you, you into like the
rapid self-destruction
- Gear.
Yeah. Yeah. It's just garbage.
And then, and then you, and
then you have elevated LDL
cholesterol also because your diet shit.
But you, you have el
elevated LDL cholesterol
and then you have all of
this, these, you know,
this in inflammation going on.
And so they say they have blockages. Yeah.
LDL cholesterol is, it's
like the firemen example.
You know, don't blame
the firemen for the fire.
I mean, they're there to put it out
and you can't say, well,
every time there's a serious
fire, there's a fireman
- There, so we should these
guys show up so clearly.
- Yeah. These guys show up. So we should,
if we stop them from showing up,
then maybe we'll stop the damage.
But now you have nobody to
put out the fire. Yeah. Right.
And so the idea is
to stop the fire from
starting in the first place.
- Right. Right. It's
- To stop, stop the inflammatory
- Process and you look
at the inflamm, right.
The inflammatory process. Yeah. That's
- That's, and that's why you
see other things, you know, in,
in relation to this too.
Because anytime you have, you know,
inflammation in the endothelial
lining, you know, the, the,
the glycocalyx, the endo calyx,
but the, the glycocalyx of the,
of, of the artery, you know,
this is usually a systemic issue.
Right. Because, you know, we think
that the skin is the
largest organ in the body.
But I would sort of differ
and say, well, you know, your
skin has the surface area
of about half a tennis court,
but the, the lining of our
arteries as the surface area
of six tennis courts, it's
12 times the surface area.
So imagine if you get an
inflammatory condition in 63,000
miles of blood vessel, you know,
what are the downstream
consequences of that?
Well, you have this myriad of what seems
to be unrelated consequences,
but they're all coming
from inflammatory condition
- In - This barrier between
the blood and the tissue.
And if you, you know, in
the simplest of terms, if,
if if nutrients can't leave
the blood and enter the tissue
and ca and waste can't leave
the tissue and enter the blood,
- Yeah.
- That in and of itself is
gonna cause such a myriad
of seemingly unrelated
consequences that we, we chase them
as if they are individual pathologies.
Right. But they're all
related to the same thing.
- Right.
- You
- Know, just, and and sometimes
they manifest differently.
- Yeah. - When you have the
chronic inflammation, you can,
you can have arterial
stiffness, you can have gout.
Right. You can have eczema.
Like they're kind of all coming
from the same right. Source.
It's just our genetics really
just determines sort of
how it, our body interprets the signals.
But really, yeah. We could
be predisposed to, when you,
you have these inflammatory
conditions, it's like, it's obvious.
It's what you're putting in your mouth.
- Yeah, no doubt. Yeah.
It's what you're putting in your mouth and
what you're swallowing
and what you're breathing.
And you know, I think that
we, we are, we're slowly sort
of micro poisoning ourselves to death.
You know, in this country
we use something called
single dose toxicity.
I hear people say all the time,
the dosage determines the poison.
And, and the dosage doesn't
always determine the poison.
It's the cumulative dosage.
Very often that determines the poison.
Right. Nobody, nobody got
- Like a carbon monoxide,
- Carbon monoxide, mercury poisoning.
Nobody got mercury poisoning from
eating one piece of tuna fish.
They got mercury poisoning
because they ate mercury
laden tuna fish over and over
and over and over and over again.
And the cumulative toxicity
is what, you know, eventually
cost the, the, the, the pathology.
And I think if, if,
if maybe we would think about
the human body like a temple,
and we would develop this
sort of invisible barrier so
that we filter things before it gets
to our temple rather than
letting our temple be the filter.
Right. You know, just that alone, just
that vantage point would,
would serve us well
because we'd start
thinking about tap water
and we'd start thinking
about, you know, our air
and we would start thinking
about the food that we're eating.
Like, you know, is this gonna serve
me or is it gonna steal for me?
How about sunscreen?
I mean, what is it 20,
I I read something the other day was,
I wanna get this quote right.
But 23 major sunscreen brands since
2020 have been, have been
removed from the shelves
because of their cancer
causing ingredients.
Yeah. I'm like, you know, wait a second,
because the sunscreen
- Yeah.
- Is being pulled from the
market for causing cancer.
I thought it was supposed
to be cancer preventive.
In fact, I, I I think, you know, most
of us are not getting enough sun.
It's not that we're
getting too much sun. Yeah.
I think that most of us
are not getting enough sun.
And, and I'm not talking
about laying out there
until you're, you know, you're barbecued.
But you know, the truth is
we're very photovoltaic beings.
We get a lot of benefits from
sunlight, not the UVA and UVB,
but you know, the blue light
from the sun, you know,
vitamin D three and all
of the ancillary products
that are made from sunlight.
- A lot of people don't
realize you don't get all
that from a Nutanix salon either.
- No.
- Like people think it's the same.
- No, that's just high U-V-A-U-V-B.
I mean you can, you,
you can target things like
you can excite the, the,
you know, the melanin in the skin,
but you're not getting those,
those real therapeutic nanometers
of wavelength that are,
you know, passing into the mitochondria
and kicking out a gas, gas
mitochondrial nitric oxide
and forcing oxygen to dock.
Right. Yeah. Causing cytochrome c oxidase
to release this mitochondrial
nitric nitric oxide gas
and then grabbing oxygen.
Which, you know, I say that the presence
of oxygen is the absence of disease
because oxygen is really
what is the most beneficial
fuel for the mitochondria.
- Yeah.
- And when we,
when we put this precious
gas into the mitochondria,
we get a 16 fold step
up in cellular energy.
Right. I mean we have a
38 a TP instead of two.
Well net 36 A TP instead
of two a TP, which means
that you have 16 times
more cellular energy.
So now you got a cell that
can eliminate waste and repair
and detoxify and regenerate
rather than a cell
that is, that is starving.
And, and I think we often
forget too that, you know,
when we eat, we are
actually the last in line
to get to be fueled.
Right. I mean the only
reason why we eat is
to feed our gut bacteria.
Right? Right. None of our
cells can use the protein
that we ingest or the
carbohydrates that we eat
or the sugars or the fats.
What happens is the
bacteria metabolize those,
turn those into compounds that,
that leave the luminal wall
of the gut and enter the bloodstream
and then those pass
through the cell cell wall
and then eventually they
enter the mitochondria
and are turned into Right.
A TP we're only fueled
by one energy source.
So we're kind of the last in line
and we think of food as fuel,
but really a TP is our fuel.
So what is the most beneficial
way to get a TP is how we,
you know, we should, I feel
like we should think about it at
least from an aging perspective.
- Yeah. - Right. Is is what
is causing accelerated aging?
Well the, the degradation
of the mitochondria.
You know, at the end of
the day No, I, I want
to talk about your concept
that you defend a lot
about progressive loading.
'cause clearly you're
holding a lot of muscle
and you know, the fact that
you use resistance bands,
I think to a lot of people is,
would be considered a hoax.
You know, we think that we need
to move massive amounts of weight
- Yeah.
- Over distance in order to build muscle.
And, and, and I've heard
you say so many times that
that's such an archaic view of, of
how the body strengthens itself.
So you your, your work was
in progressive loading.
- Well, my work was in
osteogenic loading. Okay.
So specific with bone.
But when I saw what would
happen to bone under, you know,
when we emulate high impact
forces, so, you know,
if I'm gonna absorb high impact forces
with my upper extremities
is 120 degree angle
of inclusion Between upper and lower arm.
Back of the hand is in line
with the clavicle is very
specific biomechanics for that.
So when I looked at the force outputs
that people are capable of,
but for me, I can, I can push
about 2000 pounds from here
to here and you know, it's
like the human body is
so powerful, yet we don't access any
of that in fitness.
And so I started looking at
fitness in general was like kind
of a source subject with me
because I remember I had been
lifting weights for 20 years
and I really didn't get much out of it.
- Right. - And pretty much
everybody knew some injuries I
knew, yeah.
I got so, eh, I was, I was a little
bit better than most people.
I was a little more
careful 'cause I knew more,
but still was like the
results were not there.
And I knew some genetic
outliers who did great.
And then the rest of the people
that worked out all the time,
boy they looked the same every year.
Just same, same, same.
And it is just like,
it amazes me with this,
the fitness industry, how many
people are willing to go year
after year after year and
defend what they're doing?
I don't know, maybe
because they think they're
badass or something like that.
But I think that it's the ego thing.
It's the I lift dangerous way.
It's therefore I'm really tough. And it's
- Like,
- No, you have a double chin in baby arms.
You're not tough. You have
a double chin in baby.
I say this to people all the
- Time. Yeah.
- Yeah. It's like, like
where are all these great fit people?
Why is it that, that if, you know,
wanna take a random sample
of the population people at an airport,
- Eh,
- It's not perfect,
but it's better than just, you know,
going to a shopping mall.
'cause you know, shopping mall
- Yeah. Or Disney World
- Would you or Disney
World because there's a
demographic, you know, splits.
And whereas an airport people
can traffic because they have to.
So you go through an airport,
let's say you see a thousand people.
How many airports do
you need to go through
before you see somebody
that's really fit a guy
or a girl, you know, where you're like,
whoa, I've been counting.
'cause I go to a lot of airports,
- Right?
- Yeah. It takes about
10 trips to an airport.
So today I was at two
airports, didn't see anybody.
And so, I mean basically
it's like about 10
airports I see one person.
It's be I I'm, I'm determining
as far as fit looking now
that has nothing to do with health.
But I'm talking about
results that are seen.
Because ultimately if
your fitness program isn't
serving your ego,
- You
- Are quitting.
- Yes.
- It doesn't matter.
Like if your blood test looks
good and you're like, yeah,
but I mean I'm spending hours
and it's just like I still got
a double chin and baby arms.
Yeah. So like they don't, you know,
they're like, okay, whatever.
Like you, you gotta look better.
- Yes. - Like that's part
of the winning strategy.
- Yeah. - And if one out of
10,000 people are the ones
that are getting this result, then
what we are doing is ridiculous.
It's probably the most
failed in human failed
human endeavor of all
- Right.
Just you mean the amount of time we commit
for the result that we get.
- Yeah. - Right. It's almost
the definition of insanity,
- Right?
Yeah, absolutely. Same
thing over and over again.
Absolutely. People just
dedicated to working out,
like the joke about CrossFit,
the only way you know
somebody does CrossFit is they
tell you they do CrossFit.
That's why they keep talking
about, it's that you never know.
They work out by looking at 'em.
- Yeah.
- And I mean it's not,
not anything in particular
against CrossFit, though.
I got plenty of jokes about CrossFit.
It's more, it's more just
like what you're doing
with your workouts isn't doing anything.
So when I went from
osteogenic loading research
and then kind of compared all that to some
of the fitness literature
I've been reading,
we don't do shit with weights.
We are really not engaging very much.
And this the new latest thing
that people are just running
around like half jacked off
dogs about is this long range
repetitions or lengthened partials.
So like, like really making sure
that you're loading the stretch position
- Yes.
- Of the muscle.
- I've seen a lot
- Of that.
And it's like, what? Okay,
I I I it this is true.
It's very important. However,
where do you go to fatigue?
When you lift anything in
the weakest range of motion.
- Right?
- The weakest range of motion,
the weakest link in the chain,
whatever analogy you wanna
put on it, it's the weak.
This is the weak part.
- Right. - So saying that's
where all the stimulus is.
It's like, no, that's just
where you go to fatigue.
- Mm.
- So if you didn't go to fatigue here,
that probably means you
didn't go to fatigue at all.
- Right.
- So it, it's,
it's just like almost
like a child's argument.
Like yay, we found the anabolic position.
But no fatigue is what's important now
with variable resistance.
When you're, I'm doing a chest press, I go
to fatigue in the strongest
range of motion first.
And then I keep doing repetitions
until I can't get there.
So I went to fatigue there.
Now I shorten the repetitions.
Now I'm going to fatigue in a
slightly less strong position,
then I continue to go.
So I may go to fatigue
10 separate times in one
exercise experience.
- Right. - Throughout the
full range of motion. And most
people never go to fatigue.
- Hmm.
- So it's, it's not that bands are magic
and weights are stupid.
It's that your brain
and your central nervous
system is wired for safety.
- Right.
- And if you can go
to fatigue in a diminishing range,
your body won't stop you
from hurting yourself.
'cause you won't. Right.
Therefore, you actually get the same kind
of training stimulus as
these genetic outliers.
So fire more muscle in their weaker range.
That's really the
difference between people
who end up in the NFL and the rest of us.
- You're taking advantage of
what the neural inhibition.
Right? I mean the the lack
- Of neural inhibition. Yeah.
- The lack of neural inhibition. Right.
- The only other person
who uses that term. Thank
- You. Well Oh, you're welcome.
- Oh yeah. People accuse
me of making that term off
and it's just like, no, it's in all kinds
of like neurological.
- Well, I mean that's the reason
why we can't make a fist in
so hard that we tear the, you
- Can't squeeze a fist hard
enough to break your own finger.
- Right.
- You can't do it
- Or, or tear your
- Now
- You know, muscle from
- Everyone has enough strength
to break their own finger
by squeezing a fist,
but your body won't let you do it
because it's got a
self-preservation mechanism
called neural inhibition. That's
- Right.
Yep. Amazing.
So you can take advantage of the lack of
by fatiguing yourself
through an entire range, range of motion.
And you're probably
also, you know, the name
of the game here is tear my far tissue.
So you're tearing more
mild, far tissue, you know,
for the same amount of
- Time,
- Would you say?
- I'd say stimulating.
- For stimulating.
- Yeah. 'cause the whole micro
tear thing that's, it's kind
of sometimes running in parallel,
but like marathon runners
get more micro tears than
weightlifters do, but they
don't grow any muscle.
- Right.
- So that's, I see that
as sort of distracting factor. So
- It's the stimulation.
- Yeah. It's just, it's when
the central nervous system
looks at a cell and says,
okay, this cell's done,
we can't use it anymore.
It's, it's reached the stimulation point
and then it's called out.
Which is why as you lift,
you're, you're going through repetition.
After repetition, you're getting weaker.
- And what about the whole
time under tension theory? And
- So time under tension,
eh, it like, it's important,
but what we're really doing is
time under variable tension.
- Mm.
- So you want to get
as much loading work done
in a given amount of time.
Right. Or the same amount
of time you wanna do
more loading work.
And that's like the app that connects
to the the x three bar that's wired.
You know, it's, it's got the connection.
You're looking to create more
total force each set You do,
or each workout you do.
'cause you do one, just
one set per per movement.
- Right. That which is amazing.
I mean we call it one set, but
it's, it's a hell of a set.
- Yeah. It's drinking
from the fire hose. Yeah.
It's, it's, and and you, you
body is not wired to stop
- You. Yeah.
- Your body is wired to stop
you when you lift weights.
'cause it's dangerous.
- You know, I remember we
went to Dr. Cola's house Yeah.
In, in Daytona. Was it
Daytona Beach? Daytona Beach.
We went to Dr. Cola's
house in Daytona Beach.
And you, you were installing some osteo
strong equipment in there.
- Yeah. - And, and we took
him through the X bar workout.
I was actually very surprised.
X three, sorry. Yeah.
It's X three workout.
And I was very surprised at the density
that he had in his muscle tissue
because at the time I was
heavily training for triathlon.
- Okay. And
- We did the same workout.
And I was like, here's this guy.
He's like 10 years older than
I am. He's very thin. But
- He, he's so strong. He was so,
- He's so freaking strong. I was like,
- This is
- Embarrassing. You
- Know, it's, well he,
he had done variable
resistance training for years
- Yeah.
- With chains.
So he had a, he had a gym he went to,
and what they do is, you know
how the chains well we'll explain it.
- Yeah. They heavier and they,
- Yeah.
Like you have a, a barbell
and it's on each end, it's connected
to two piles of equal chains.
And as you lift it, you're
picking up more big links
of the And we're we're talking
like, like battleship anchor
- Chains. Yeah, yeah.
- Like really heavy chains.
- Yeah.
- And so as you're picking
up more links, each one
of those links weighs like 10 pounds
or seven pounds or something like that.
And so it's heavy as you go
far from the floor. Right.
And it go closer to the floor,
it's lighter. So he had been
training like that.
So as soon as he saw X
three, it was just like, it
- Just makes sense.
- Obvious. Like,
- I just remember him
- Doing, doing, so one of
these is living in my suitcase,
- Doing the front squats.
And I was like, dude, this
guy's already done like 12 more
reps than I could ever do. Yeah. And
- Yeah, he went right to the heaviest band
- First.
He went right to the
heaviest band first. Yeah.
That was amazing. So, I
mean, clearly it works,
it works even in older ages. And I think
- Okay,
- If you wanna live a long time,
you gotta lift heavy things.
You gotta put, you gotta put the body.
- There's no getting away from heavy.
- Yeah. - Like you have to put
heavy loads through the body
and with variable resistance,
your body's just not afraid of it.
- Yeah.
- It welcomes it, it you're,
you're more lit up when you
do a variable resistance set.
And here's the weird thing,
when I get stopped in airports,
usually when some, some, you
know, troll sees you in person,
they kind of don't come at you like
wanting to yell in your face.
- Right. - They like, so I
get approached in airports all
the time and I can tell if
somebody's a bodybuilder
or a power lifter just
by the question they ask.
- Yeah.
- Because the bodybuilders are like, Hey,
like do you secretly lift
weights and you know,
'cause they, in their
mind like please say yes.
It's like weights are
everything but a power lifter.
They've trained with variable resistance.
Some of them partially,
most of them, almost all
of their training variable resistance.
You look at west side barbell,
west side barbell did
one thing differently.
Two, the, the sitting down
on the box during the squat.
That's one thing that
people had done that before,
but they made it cool.
- So they actually
rested and then exploded.
- Basically your butt touch
fully touches the seat
- Because
- It's, you wanna make sure
your legs go parallel.
- Right.
- 'cause they're training
for the squat as a sport.
Right. You know, as an event. So you
gotta get it just right.
And I think neurologically
that's, that's a good thing.
If you're not training for the
squat, then it doesn't matter.
But the other thing was bands,
they put bands on all
the bars, heavy users
of variable resistance
in only a few years.
And this currently stands West
side barbell has more world
records than any country on earth,
including the United States.
I did not know that. You took West Side
outta the United States.
Right. And the answer
is variable resistance.
And I know some, somebody
will be like, well they also,
you know, whatever.
Okay, sure. They did some
of the shit, I guess.
I mean there were natural athletes there
and enhanced athletes,
but, but they're natural
and enhanced athletes all
over the rest of the world.
I agree. I weren't doing
variable resistance.
So to me it's very obvious.
And the good news is
I've never met somebody
who gave X three an honest shot
and wasn't completely
hands down like doing that
- As
- Their main strength workout.
Now, like some of the
pro athletes I work with,
the Miami Heat, they're a
hundred percent X three,
but they still have to do
their drills and you know, they
- Of course, yeah. Yeah.
- You gotta be functional. Yeah.
I think sometimes I say that
and maybe the, you know, the clip
for Instagram just ends right there.
And it's just like, they're
like see front Oh really?
The Miami heat's not shooting
baskets anymore. Yeah, yeah.
Of course they are.
But as far as the, just the strength
and also like pre rehabbing joints,
building thicker tendons and ligaments.
Great research for Benjamin Ralph's 1998.
Kyle's gonna laugh 'cause
I quote that all the time.
Your, your tendons and
ligaments get thicker.
Your joint capsule becomes more
powerful when you hyper load
that strong position.
- Mm.
- And we do it at Osteostrong
and to a lesser degree
it happens with X three.
This is awesome. Yeah.
'cause the, the weight climbs
as you get into that range of motion.